# Text-based-Sentiment-Analysis
To extract and sentiment analysis from a verbal description, text-based sentiment detection is employed. Text-based sentiment detection categorized into two main phases, including language representation and classification. Language representation proposes a robust technique to extract the contextual  2 information from the text to increase the quality of feature extraction. Classification employed neural networks to increase classification performance. These techniques have been applied to extract sentiment from the “IMDB” movie review dataset. Three general approaches are represented to detect sentiment analysis, including Rule Construction, Machine Learning (ML), and Hybrid Approaches. Outcome: provided the text processing techniques used in NLP and different feature extraction methods, including Bag of words, TF-IDF, Word2Vec, and Glove. Demonstrated the use of text processing and build a Sentiment Analyzer with classical ML approaches that achieved fairly good results. Described in detail the architecture of the Deep Learning model for sentiment classification. Hence, trained a word2vec model and used it as a pre-trained embedding for sentiment classification. This knowledge applied to experiment with deep learning NLP models to classify film reviews as positive or negative. Some of these models involved layer types (dense and convolutional layers), while later ones involved new layer types from the RNN family (LSTMs and GRUs). In a conclusion, deep learning models offer clear comprehensibility of the extracted feature prior to classification.
